*UltraBlog.txt*
==============================================================================
  UltraBlog                                                        *UltraBlog*
==============================================================================

Author:      Lenin Lee   lenin.lee at gmail dot com       *UltraBlog_Author*
URL:         http://sinolog.it/?p=1894                    *UltraBlog_URL*
Description: Ultimate vim blogging plugin.                |UltraBlog_Motivation|
Version:     2.2.0                                        |UltraBlog_History|
License:     Copyleft                                     |UltraBlog_License|
Contribute:  Please report any bugs or suggestions        |UltraBlog_Bugs|
             to the address above.                        |UltraBlog_Future|

==============================================================================
  Table of Contents                                        *UltraBlog_Contents*
==============================================================================

             1. Motivation.................|UltraBlog_Motivation|
             2. Operation..................|UltraBlog_Operation|
                2.1 Modes..................|UltraBlog_Modes|
                2.2 Scopes.................|UltraBlog_Scopes|
             3. Prerequisites..............|UltraBlog_Prerequisites|
             4. Keymaps....................|UltraBlog_Keymaps|
             5. Commands...................|UltraBlog_Commands|
             6. Options....................|UltraBlog_Options|
             7. Bugs.......................|UltraBlog_Bugs|
             8. Future.....................|UltraBlog_Future|
             9. History....................|UltraBlog_History|
            10. License....................|UltraBlog_License|

==============================================================================
  Motivation                                             *UltraBlog_Motivation*
==============================================================================

The biggest difference between UltraBlog.vim and other Vim blogging scripts is 
that UltraBlog.vim supplies two modes: the first one is editor mode, in which 
users can manage posts and pages in their blogs, just like other Vim blogging
scripts; the second is client mode, in which posts and pages are stored in a 
local SQLite database, in this way, it does not only OPERATE on posts/pages in 
blogs but also MANAGE them locally. So UltraBlog.vim is an integrated blogging 
client more than just a blog editor.

You will find UltraBlog.vim very useful when you write posts in some light 
weight markup languages, such as Markdown, LaTeX, reStructuredText and Textile. 
With posts/pages stored locally, you can edit them in any light weight markup
language at any time even after a long time when they were published, and update 
the online copies in HTML syntax. 

This is the exact original intention for which I wrote UltraBlog.vim. After 
years of blogging, I've formed the habbit that writing posts in Markdown 
syntax to save time, and I think it is good to always keep my posts updated, 
rather than post it and forget it. But I found it hard to update the posted 
copies after modifying the local Markdown source files with other Vim blogging 
plugins. 

==============================================================================
  Operation                                               *UltraBlog_Operation*
==============================================================================

UltraBlog.vim makes life easier while writing or updating blogs. It stores
posts/pages in a local SQLite database. You can also set it to editor mode, in
which UltraBlog.vim does not store data locally, just like other Vim blogging 
scripts.

By default, UltraBlog.vim is in client mode. You can set it to use editor mode
by adding the fallowing line to the vimrc file:

Modes                                                          *UltraBlog_Modes*

    let ub_editor_mode = 1

To determine whether to operate on local data or remote data, UltraBlog.vim 
provides tow scopes:

Scopes                                                        *UltraBlog_Scopes*

    local
        Manage posts/pages stored in a local SQLite database.

    remote
        Manage posts/pages in the blog.

==============================================================================
  Prerequisites                                        *UltraBlog_Prerequisites*
==============================================================================

UltraBlog.vim requires the following softwares to work normally:

    * Vim with python support enabled
    * SQLAlchemy 0.7 or newer
    + python-markdown or python-markdown2
    + pandoc or other

The asterisk items are required at any condition.

One of the two markdown modules of python is needed if you want to convert 
posts/pages from Markdown to HTML.

pandoc is requried when you need to do conversions between any pair of the 
avaliable syntaxes. You can also specify you own external command as the 
converter. For more information, refer to help messages of options below.

==============================================================================
  Keymappings                                            *UltraBlog_Keymappings*
==============================================================================

All keymappings can be customized by setting some options, refer to
|UltraBlog_Options| for detail information.

<c-pageup>    - Shift to previous page in local post list.
<c-pagedown>  - Shift to next page in local post list.
<del>         - Delete the post under cursor in post list.
<enter>       - Open the post/page under cursor in the current view, if is in 
                remote post list, posts which are not in local database will 
                be saved to it before opened.
<s-enter>     - Open the post/page under cursor in a new splitted window.
<c-enter>     - Open the post/page under cursor in a new tab.

==============================================================================
  Commands                                                 *UltraBlog_Commands*
==============================================================================

:UBNew [markdown\|html\|rst\|textile\|latex]                            *:UBNew*
:UBPageNew [markdown\|html\|rst\|textile\|latex]                    *:UBPageNew*
    Create a new post. If no parameter is given, UltraBlog will consider that 
    you want to use markdown syntax. All categories are pulled down from your 
    blog and you just need to delete the undesired ones.

:UBPreview                                                         *:UBPreview*
    Preview changes. You do not have to care for which syntax you use, markdown 
    source will be translated into html automatically before a browser window 
    opened to display it.

:UBSave                                                               *:UBSave*
    Save modifications. After executing this command, the current buffer is 
    saved into database.

:UBSend [draft\|publish\|private\|pending]                            *:UBSend*
    Post an item. If no parameter is given, UltraBlog will send the item to 
    blog and set it to be the value stored in the meta information area.

:UBList [local [page_size] [page_no]|remote [latest_num]]             *:UBList*
:UBPageList [local|remote]                                        *:UBPageList*
    List posts.

    For example:

    :UBList

    This command lists the first page of local posts, by default, posts which 
    have not been posted to blog are listed before the posted ones, and there 
    are |ub_local_pagesize| posts a page.

    :UBList local 20 3

    This command lists the third page of local posts, 20 posts a page. As you see, 
    you can use this command to scroll forward or back between pages. As a matter 
    of fact, there are two key mappings within local post list:

      * CTRL+PageDown
      * CTRL+PageUp

    :UBList remote 50

    This command lists the latest 50 posts in the blog.

    Pressing the ENTER key in a remote post list will open the post under cursor 
    and save it to the local database if it is not in it, otherwise, the local 
    copy will be opened instead of the remote one. This enables users to modify 
    markdown source and update the remote post.

    The remote post list doesn't support paging.

:UBOpen {id} [local|remote]                                           *:UBOpen*
:UBPageOpen {id} [local|remote]                                   *:UBPageOpen*
    Open a post. If no scope (local or remote) is given, UltraBlog will try to 
    open a local post whose id is the one specified. Otherwise, a post in the 
    given scope with the id will be opened.

:UBDel {id} [local|remote]                                             *:UBDel*
    Delete a post or page. Refer |UBOpen| for the usage of these options.
    You can also delete posts from the post list by pressing the DELETE button on 
    the target post. In a local post list, if the post to be deleted has been 
    posted to blog, a confirmation will be prompted for you to decide whether 
    to delete the remote copy cascadly.

:UBUpload {file_path}                                               *:UBUpload*
    Upload media. This command can only be executed in a post edit view, and the 
    URL of the uploaed file will be appended in that buffer.

:UBThis [markdown\|html\|rst\|textile\|latex]                         *:UBThis*
:UBPageThis [markdown\|html\|rst\|textile\|latex]                 *:UBPageThis*
    Create a new post or page which is filled with content in the current 
    buffer. If no parameter is specified, the syntax in the current buffer is
    used, if no syntax has been set to the current buffer, then 'markdown' is
    used.

:UBConv {to_syntax} [from_syntax]                                      *:UBConv*
    Convert the current buffer from 'from_syntax' to 'to_syntax'.
    The available syntaxes are Markdown, HTML, reStructuredText, Textile and
    LaTeX.
    If you only need to convert from Markdown to HTML, only python-markdown or
    python-markdown2 module is required. For other conversion scenarios, you 
    must install pacdoc or use the options: |ub_converter_command|, 
    |ub_converter_options|, |ub_converter_option_from|,
    |ub_converter_option_to| to specify a valid external command.

==============================================================================
  Options                                                   *UltraBlog_Options*
==============================================================================

ub_blog                                                              *ub_blog*

    Example:
        let ub_blog = {'login_name':'admin',
                    \'password':'pass2011',
                    \'xmlrpc':'http://www.sample.com/xmlrpc.php',
                    \'db':'$VIM/UltraBlog.db'
                    \}
    Keys:
        db
            Use any path string that can be expanded as a normal fullpath by
            the function 'expand()'.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ub_editor_mode                                                 *ub_editor_mode*

    Set this option to 1 will force UltraBlog.vim not to store data in a local
    SQLite database. You can still use most of the functions UltraBlog.vim
    supplies, especially those which are used to manage blogs remotely.
    
    In one word, this mode works just like other Vim blogging scripts.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ub_local_pagesize                                           *ub_local_pagesize*

    Default pagesize for local post list. If not specified, the default value
    is 30.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ub_remote_pagesize                                         *ub_remote_pagesize*

    Default pagesize for remote post list. If not specified, the default value
    is 10.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ub_append_promotion_link                             *ub_append_promotion_link*

    If this option has been set to 1, a promotion link will be appended at the
    end of current buffer after |:UBNew| is executed.

    Proudly show your visitors that you are blogging with the world's most 
    powerful editor.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ub_list_col1_width                                         *ub_list_col1_width*
ub_list_col2_width                                         *ub_list_col2_width*
ub_list_col3_width                                         *ub_list_col3_width*

    Column widths of post or page lists.
    col1 for the local id column, whose default value is 10.
    col2 for the remote id column, whose default value is 10.
    col3 for the status column, whose default value is 10.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ub_save_after_opend                                       *ub_save_after_opened*
ub_save_after_sent                                          *ub_save_after_sent*

    If the above options are set to 1, posts/pages will be saved to database
    immediately after they are opened from or sent to the blog.

    By default, their values are 0s.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ub_converter_command                                      *ub_converter_command*

    This is the command needed to do conversions between the avaliable
    syntaxes.

    By default, the value is:

        'pandoc'

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ub_converter_options                                      *ub_converter_options*

    A list of options to be appended to the |ub_converter_command|.

    By default, the value is:

        ['--reference-links']

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ub_converter_option_from                              *ub_converter_option_from*

    A template string which will be filled with the 'from_syntax' and appended
    to the |ub_converter_command|.

    By default, the value is:

        '--from=%s'

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ub_converter_option_to                                  *ub_converter_option_to*

    A template string which will be filled with the 'to_syntax' and appended
    to the |ub_converter_command|.

    By default, the value is:

        '--to=%s'

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ub_hotkey_open_item_in_current_view        *ub_hotkey_open_item_in_current_view*

    Set the hotkey to be used when to open a post/page in the list view. When
    invoked, the list view will be reused.

    By default, the value is:

    let ub_hotkey_open_item_in_current_view='<enter>'

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ub_hotkey_open_item_in_splitted_view      *ub_hotkey_open_item_in_splitted_view*

    Set the hotkey to be used when to open a post/page in the list view. When
    invoked, the post/page will be displayed in a new splitted window.

    By default, the value is:

    let ub_hotkey_open_item_in_splitted_view='<s-enter>'

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ub_hotkey_open_item_in_tabbed_view          *ub_hotkey_open_item_in_tabbed_view*

    Set the hotkey to be used when to open a post/page in the list view. When
    invoked, the post/page will be displayed in a new tab.

    By default, the value is:

    let ub_hotkey_open_item_in_tabbed_view='<c-enter>'

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ub_hotkey_delete_item                                    *ub_hotkey_delete_item*

    Set the hotkey to be used when to delete a post/page in the list view. 
    When invoked, the post/page will be deleted after a confirmation.

    By default, the value is:

    let ub_hotkey_delete_item='<del>'

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ub_tmpl_img_url                                                *ub_tmpl_img_url*

    Set the link template for images uploaded by |:UBUpload|. This string 
    should be a template string valid for python to format printing, and every
    placeholder must be among the keys of the dictionary returned by the
    wordpress API method newMediaObject().

    Structure of the dictionary:

        {'url':'http://xxx/z.jpg', 'file':'z.jpg', 'type':'image/x-jpg'}

    By default, the value is:
        
        let ub_tmpl_img_url="markdown###![%(file)s][]\n[%(file)s]:%(url)s"

    As is illustrated, the template string should be appended with its syntax.
    A tripple sharp sign '###' is used to devide the syntax and the template.
    This is used to auto convert the template to the syntax the current buffer
    has. If you don't need this, you can just simply ignore the appending
    syntax and '###'.

==============================================================================
  Future                                                     *UltraBlog_Future*
==============================================================================

    * Context search.

==============================================================================
  Bugs                                                         *UltraBlog_Bugs*
==============================================================================

If you discover any bugs not listed here, please contact the |UltraBlog_Author|

==============================================================================
  History                                                   *UltraBlog_History*
==============================================================================

2.2.0
    * Change:  Merge :UBSave and :UBPageSave to |:UBSave|, merge :UBSend and 
               :UBPageSend to |:UBSend|.
    * Feature: Add an option |ub_tmpl_img_url| to customize a link template 
               string for the image uploaded by |:UBUpload|.

2.1.0
    * Change:  Increase the requirement to SQLAlchemy to version 0.7 or newer.
    * Feature: Now posts/pages can be opened in a new tab or splitted window.
    * Feature: Add options to let users customize hotkeys:
                   |ub_hotkey_open_item_in_current_view|
                   |ub_hotkey_open_item_in_splitted_view|
                   |ub_hotkey_open_item_in_tabbed_view|
                   |ub_hotkey_delete_item|

2.0.1
    * Bugfix:  Uploading media files may fail on Windows.
    * Bugfix:  An exception may be raised when Vim starts with no proper 
               configuration for UltraBlog.vim or some prerequisites are not
               met.

2.0
    * Feature: Add editor mode.
    * Feature: Add more syntaxes: LaTeX, reStructuredText and Textile.
    * Feature: Add command |:UBConv| to convert a post/page from one syntax to
               another.
    * Feature: Add options |ub_converter_command|, |ub_converter_options|, 
               |ub_converter_option_from|, |ub_converter_option_to| to specify 
               a custom extenal command in place of pandoc as the converter.
    * Feature: Add option |ub_save_after_opened| to control whether to save 
               posts/pages to database right after they are fetched from
               blogs.
    * Feature: Add option |ub_save_after_sent| to control whether to save
               posts/pages to database right after they are sent to blogs.

1.4
    * Feature: Add two commands: |:UBThis| and |:UBPageThis|, to create a new post 
               or page with content in the current buffer.

1.3
    * Feature: Record post statuses, post them in their recorded statuses when 
               omit parameters for |:UBSend| and |:UBPageSend|.
    * Feature: Display post/page status in post/page list, add an option 
               |ub_list_col3_width| to set its width.
    * Feature: Extend statuses to support private, pending and draft.
    * Feature: Change the status 'public' to 'publish'.
    * Feature: Check prerequesites in every top level functions.
    * BugFix:  Do not raise an error on startup when sqlalchemy is not installed.

1.2
    * Feature: Column widths can be set to custom values, which keep post or 
               page lists tidy. Two options added: |ub_list_col1_width| and 
               |ub_list_col2_width|.

1.1
    * Feature: Page management.
    * Feature: Add option |ub_append_promotion_link| to control whether to
               append a promotion link of UltraBlog.vim.
    * Bugfix:  Wrong order for parameters of commands |:UBOpen| and |:UBDel|
               in documentation.

1.0.5
    * Feature: Add documentation.
    * Feature: Use Vimball as the default distribution format.
    * Feature: Add two options - |ub_local_pagesize| and |ub_remote_pagesize|.

1.0.4
    * Fix the problem that an unexpected type exception is raised when UBList 
      is given some numbers as parameters.

1.0.3
    * Add a column in remote post list the same as the one in local post list, 
      which is used to display ids of local copies of corresponding posts.
    * Fix the problem that buffers can be reverted to what the previous views 
      contain throught the undo action.
    * Fix the minor problem that text won't wrap automatically in views opened 
      by the command :UBNew.

1.0.2
    * Fix the problem that Post.post_id won't be updated in database after a 
      new post is sent to blog.
    * Fix the problem that it prompts for confirmation to delete the remote copy 
      when deleting a post whose post_id is 0 from local post list.

1.0.1
    * Do not pop up an exception alert for the first time when Vim starts with 
      UltraBlog.vim installed and no configurations added to the vimrc file.

1.0
    * Initial version

==============================================================================
  License                                                   *UltraBlog_License*
==============================================================================

Copyleft 2011

==============================================================================
vim:tw=78:ts=4:ft=help:norl:fdm=marker
